import Comments from "@components/Comments"

export const title = "What Have I learned in 2024?"
export const description = "A somewhat interesting insight into what I've learned in 2024. Will this new profound knowledge carry with me into 2025? We'll have to just wait and see."
export const date = "2025-01-08"
export const type = "blog"

# Things I've Learned in 2024

2024 was a pretty lackluster year for me all things considered. However, it may
have also been the year where I was the most excited to try and experiment with
new things. Ranting aside, let's dive into all the cool new gadgets I've played
with in 2024.

> This is about a 5 minute read.

## Databases and Caching

Working with and managing databases was a new experience for me in 2024. When I
was writing a custom application for a client, we needed to reliably manage data
without the risk of data corruption. Normally, JSON was my go-to choice because
it was familiar to me, but it was far, far too unreliable for the situation at
hand.

I've settled with [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) as my go-to choice
when working with databases. It's probably overkill for small applications, but
it definitely gets the job done. It even comes with a cool dashboard called
_pgAdmin_ to help visualize your data.

However, making requests to your database can be computationally expensive.
That's where caching comes in. If data is frequently requested, it may be worth
looking into caching solutions. I use [Redis](https://redis.io/) for this.
Unlike a traditional database, Redis stores your data in-memory which makes it
much faster and less expensive on your hardware.

My biggest complaint about SQL is _it's just not fun to write_. Please use an
[ORM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object%E2%80%93relational_mapping). It'll
make you and your colleagues' lives so much easier. However, it's still
important to be weary of what SQL is capable of, so don't drop it off your mind
entirely.

## Managing Websites with Cloudflare

I purchased _this domain_ about a year ago and linked it to my GitHub account.
Managing a website has showed me both the beauty and ugly of this world, but it
was all worth it just to get these cool letters to appear in your searchbar. I
personally recommend you get a grasp of HTML and CSS instead of using an
off-the-shelf website builder like Wix and Wordpress. It'll take time, but
having full creative control over your website is worth the hardship.

[Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/) is probably the safest and most secure
way to manage your website. It's especially vital if you host your website on
your own hardware. It also provides a bunch of useful tools such as analytics,
storage, and workers. If you want a fancy business email, they'll handle that
for you too.

## Building My First PC

Learning how to build your first PC is certainly an experience to have. You
start off clueless, and then you know everything. It involves so much research
even before you start assembling anything. For example, what are you looking for
in a computer? Video editing? Music production? Gaming? Programming? Digital
art? All of these should be considered when looking for PC components. You can
also just order a prebuilt one, but that's no fun.

For me, I wanted something for programming, and of course, _gaming_. A lot of my
work involves performance testing, so I needed a CPU that could handle millions
of operations per second without stuttering. I don't play very graphically
demanding games, so I just went with a solid midrange GPU. However, some games
are memory hogs like modded Minecraft, so I got ahold of some fat 32 GB RAM
sticks, but most people could settle with 16 GB. If you have several downloaded
games or video recordings, you might also want to peek at big storage options.

I've also made a few mistakes too. I ordered _a TN monitor_ instead of an OLED
monitor. Honestly, it's not worth getting anything TN or LCD these days. Color
accuracy simply outweighs anything they could ever offer. My current build also
doesn't support Bluetooth. Like I said earlier, _please_ do the research. These
mistakes could've been avoided if I just read the fine print. Use something like
[PCPartPicker](https://pcpartpicker.com/) to compile your parts.

## Computer Servers

When I upgraded my PC, it left me with some cold metal, i.e., my old computer.
Not sure what to do with it, it just sat in a corner for a few months collecting
dust overtime. Then all of sudden, _eureka_! Its new purpose was to now host a
Minecraft server. I wiped out everything and installed a fresh copy of Ubuntu
(I'm a normie, I know) onto it. Normally, the spare HDMI cable lying around was
used for accessing it, but then I discovered how much more convenient SSH was.

Today, it's still being used for a Minecraft server, but I also run other things
on it such as a Jellyfin, a media server for watching your _totally legally
obtained media_ on it. My Discord bots are also running on it which alleviates
some of the stress from my main computer. I also run a Nextcloud server for
better privacy when managing sensitive files.
[Check out the
Awesome-Selfhosted repository](https://github.com/awesome-selfhosted/awesome-selfhosted).
It might be fun setting up a homelab of your own.

## Conducting My Own Business

The knowledge I have for managing my own "brand" is quite bleak and the learning
experience will have to carry into 2025. Working with _actual_ clients by
yourself is fun, exciting, depressing, and stressful all at the same time. Just
pace yourself in a way that doesn't burn you out. Anyway, whatever I write here
next year will probably be more interesting.

## Conclusion

Overall, it was certainly a year. Anyway, that's enough yapping.

<Comments />
